gavin favorite color is blue
bella's is lavendar

https://blog.rubenwardy.com/2023/01/24/using_sdl_gamecontroller/

gavin is wearing a beanie

neccesary to FINISH THE GAME IN TIME:
add gavin (sprites, and multi player support)
add other 3 cats
add tutorial and main menu

game ideas:

two phases of game loop:
scavenge phase ( search house for randomly generated weapons ( inside of containers such as drawers ) )
tame phase ( try and tame the cat )

taming the cat is dealing enough 'damage' to it so that it becomes friendly
each cat gets their own phase two

boba: can eat food to heal
bean: hops on the wheel which allows her to knock it over and roll it around
gerry: becomes more aggresive and 'out of control'

weapon ideas:

[x] catnip cannon ( shoots out catnip, making cats faster and stronger. makes damage taken increase ) 120 delay 0 dmg
[x] treat pistol ( pistol which shoots cat treats ) 40 delay 2 dmg
water gun ( push the cat back, but if in a corner it will launch towards you )
[x] crinkle ball blaster ( pom pom crinkle ball thingies ) 20 delay 0.5 dmg
feather ( sword like weapon ) 40 delay 3 dmg
q-tip rifle ( shoots out a lot of small q-tips ) 18 delay 1 dmg
[x] bottle cap rifle ( shoots out bottle caps that riccocet off objects (limited amount of times) ) 30 delay 1 dmg
sock slinger ( shoots socks that will slow the cat down if it lands ) 80 delay 1 dmg
pumpkin scooper ( scoops pumpkin and throws it at the cat. will make cats angry except gerry ) 80 delay 2 dmg (gerry)


item ideas:

tv remote ( limited battery. turns on tv (kitty tv) which distracts cat ) 0 delay 0 dmg
[x] toy octopus ( acts like a grapple hook. bound to ZL if obtained ) 240 delay 0 dmg
yarn ( temporarily distracts cats ) 0 delay 0 dmg
cucumber ( cat will avoid going near here ) 0 delay 0 dmg
plant ( acts as shield. the cat will damage the plant instead of you for it's health ) 4hp
laser pointer ( limited battery. cat will follow the cursor (where the laser pointer is) ) 0 delay 0 dmg
[x] boba ( one time use. heals the player 20hp ) 0 delay 0 dmg
[x] coffee ( makes you run faster for a period of time ) 20s
karaoke machine ( if used by bella it makes the cats angrier. if used by gavin it makes the cats calmer ) 8s
peanut butter apple ( heals the player for 5hp )
[x] mocchi ( heals the player for 8hp )
[x] lucky bag ( gives you 3 random positive items )
dying plant ( if you can water the plant enough (random intervals to distract), it will give both players a permanent damage bonus )
toy bird ( will launch where thrown, distracting the cat until it lands on the floor. ) 120 delay 0 dmg
[x] loaf of bread ( makes the cat loaf on the floor, pausing it ) 5s

bella's lost halloween candy:
can only be found by gavin.
if found by gavin, it will heal 6hp
once found by gavin, it can spawn eaten halloween candy
if found by bella, it's nothing but wrappers

polaroid: ( if used when both players are nearby, it will heal them both ) 4hp
[x] new world ( will remove all negative effects ) tooltip: "this button was pressed a lot"
[x] banana bread ( multi use healing item ) 2hp x 4 tooltip: "baked with the secret ingredient of motherly love"
[x] chalk ( increases friction, allowing for faster acceleration ) 30s
[x] pineapple ( heals bella for 1hp, heals gavin for 6hp ) tooltip: "bella's 'favorite' item"

negative item ideas:

[x] cinammon ( leaves a trail of cinammon following you. makes the ground slipperier ) 10s
phone ( if used by bella, she makes a short video on music.ly, being paused. if used by gavin, he goes on social media, being paused ) requires the other player to interact with them to cancel
pumpkin spice ( reduces the effectiveness of all healing items )
turnip ( duplicates every 8 seconds. will heal the cat if touched ) 1hp (-1hp for player)
IDEA: japanese dictionary ( switches the language to japanese. very hard and might not do ) 30s
rice porridge ( slows the player down ) 12s 3hp
[x] clothing tag ( makes movement jittery ) 8s tooltip: "'BUGS YOU!!'"
raw fish ( cat targets the player and is faster ) 24s
warrior cat book ( if picked up by bella, it forces gavin to read the book with her, halting progression ) 5s
[x] worn toy cat ( makes the next 3 storage containers pick the cat ) tooltip: "The gift that keeps on giving!"

collectables:

copy of bellas book ( new york times #1 best seller )
gi ( it's been used heavily )
things from anime
drawing tablet ( used for "photo editing". would never be stolen )
lucky cat (  )
typewriter ( it's still broken... )
stuffed cow ( a favorite toy. has 'moo' written on the tag )